military analyst Michael Clark from
King's College London welcome back to DW
uh let's start in Al maazi where
Israel's Army tried to kill a Hamas top
Commander but ended up causing dozens of
Civilian casualties instead how do
things like that happen with an army
that is so well
equipped because it's not the army that
is doing it it's the Israeli Air Force
and the it can happen because it's what
the Israelis intend if they are going
after people like Muhammad di they they
thought that he was that they had him
that they knew exactly where he was and
they still think that they probably got
him but they can't confirm it and if you
look at the way the Israelis approach
these operations when it comes to the
top commanders like Muhammad de like
Issa who you mentioned in the in the
report like Yaya Sina who is the the the
man above di when it comes to people
like that they will take they will
accept any number any number of
Palestinian casualties if they can get
those particular top commanders so they
sent five missiles onto the area where
they thought they had good information
that DF was maybe they got in maybe they
didn't but from their point of view when
they go for a really top Commander the
number of of Civilian casualties is
simply irrelevant when they go for
people who are not top commanders they
do consider how many deaths are regarded
as reasonable and you and I would still
say that's a very high number but the
the number that they consider reasonable
is unlimited going after somebody like
di right Israel has said repeatedly that
its endgame is to eradicate Hamas and
that it won't end the war until it's
achieve that aim yeah is that possible
to eliminate Hamas
completely no and they in fact they they
don't now say they're trying to
eliminate Hamas you look carefully at
what Netanyahu said began by saying we
have to eliminate Hamas full stop take
them off the map Al together then he
said we have to eliminate Hamas um as an
organization which is not quite the same
as eliminating Hamas and then he said
now he says we must eliminate Hamas as a
military threat to Israel that's a bit
different again so the Israelis are
already three steps down from the place
they started at and they're not going to
achieve even that because although they
talk about the number of Hamas
terrorists they've killed they they
thought were 25,000 there at the
beginning of this operation they think
that they have killed at least
15,000 but nobody can give you a figure
as to how many more terrorists they have
created for every 22y old Hamas
terrorist they kill you can guarantee
there's a 15y old brother and three or
four 12y old cousins who have have sworn
Vengeance against Israel for the rest of
their lives so the idea that the
israelies can eliminate Hamas as a
military
organization um is plausible but they
can't eliminate it as a military threat
as long as they are creating at least as
many terrorists as they kill that's the
problem they've got and at the moment
they only have about two brigades in the
hold of the Gaza Strip they've withdrawn
most of their troops they hold Rafer
they hold the Philadelphia Corridor at
the South that runs along the southern
border with Egypt and they hold the
netsim corridor um in the the North and
the shua Camp that's the so there's only
three areas and the area of Rafa that
they actually control the rest of the
place is now open for Hamas to come back
which is what they're doing and and a
brief word about those moderated aims
that you you talked us through is that a
reflection of the difficulty of this war
or is that just what they should have
been saying right at the start and they
they started off having high flown aims
because that's what you do at the start
of a
war yes I mean the the Netanyahu
government didn't think through with any
credibility or Clarity what they were
really trying to achieve and they gave
the IDF the Israeli Defense Forces a
quite impossible job to do and they
wouldn't specify what they were supposed
to to do as in when they cleared Hamas
people out of the North and then the
center and then Gaza City then Kan yunas
and so the IDF have been making this up
as they go along it's a it's a a
strategic failure from start to finish
and it leaves the IDF basically Chas
faing its tail inside Gaza while the
situation doesn't get doesn't get worse
but it doesn't get any better for Israel
but it gets considerably worse for the
people of that's very clear thank you
for talking us through that military
analyst from Kings college at London
Michael Clark